# Training Data Is Quietly Deciding Winners in AI Search - Inside SEO Week

- **Author:** Mike King
- **URL:** https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VBH9Od_OL1Q
- **Date:** 2026-04-21
- **Video ID:** VBH9Od_OL1Q
- **Source:** Supadata transcript API

---

I can't believe it. Okay, so two things I am so hyped about. One is SEO week is next week. It is here. I can't believe it. When when not when we're recording this, we're recording this a little before, but like when you watch this, this is it's coming up next week. And second part is I am having like kind I'm fanboying for a moment. I'm getting to talk to the man here Metahan. I know you're gonna blush or whatever but Metahan who is the co-founder and chief officer chief growth officer at AEO Vision and you're just a dude that I just love talk I love what you're doing. I love talking about this stuff with you. What's going on, man? How are you? >> Thanks. Thanks for having me today. It's going great actually and I'm super excited for the SEO week you know and currently working on new experiment new stuff and trying to uh manage the clients requests and everything is happening fast you know because of this AI hype. >> It is nuts. I mean you are in dev chrome tools reverse engineering chatgpt AI overviews you know everything like AI mode Gemini kind of getting into the weeds. Uh you've written all these amazing insights of what of your discoveries doing really fun experiments like the ridiculous prompt injections one which I put on the IPO rank blog. I'm sure I got in trouble for that for a minute but it's but you're doing the work and that's what's so interesting about our field right now. So I want to ask you Medahan what is top of mind in AI search? How are you thinking about our industry right now? >> Yes, everyone went crazy you know um uh on the other hand there's a new it looks like a new market but I still believe SEO is king. SEO isn't there but that's another debate topic. uh I will I will speak skip that part and you know every every development is exciting at the moment. So I really love working on chat GPT, perplexity, Gemini, cloud and now we have some agentic stuff uh some coding models uh you know and everyone actually every client of course you are also facing of this situation uh demanding too much stuff in very uh short deadlines and I'm right now currently trying to build the best agentic SEO and AO uh orchestration uh for my work and uh for the future. But yes, it's everything is so hype and I'm really really glad uh to be in search industry. >> I can't wait to hear your presentation. the next I feel like the next 3 months, 6 months, 12 months are going to be there's going to be a lot more noise. There's going to be a lot of changes. What do you anticipate? How are you trying to stay ahead of what's happening in terms of like consumer behavior, what the different LMS are doing? How are you thinking about like what's coming up? >> First, I always uh try to take a step back as a user. Okay, just leave the algorithms, leave the probabilistic design of LLMs because every every even you ask the same question. Okay, context stays the same but citation uh changing. Sometimes clients just ask okay we are uh we can see our brand in this prompt can you check I type it but no response etc etc. uh but as a user I'm trying to understand also these developments because it also benefits my work and my life uh suddenly I uh find myself in Google's AI mode chat GPT or other models or AI overviews I just start to ask too many questions on internet so it's it's super cool by the way and and today I just ask a question and AI overviews uh just came up then I felt myself okay I need to ask one more question but how can I do it then I realized okay that's the why Google also release Google's AI mode because I can continue my research or question to get more answers so everything is fascinating of course I'm not happy with the e-commerce developments uh with the AI you Tet just uh came up with an another exciting idea uh and they basically told us okay we also want disrupt the all e-commerce area with the agentic uh stuff agents will start buying too many things etc etc but for the next month um for the next weeks uh I'm super excited for my talk at SEO. This is my first project at the moment. Uh still working on my presentation to deliver the best uh one of the best presentations in the uh event and I know too many cool names will also speak. And second, I'm really excited to meet you in person. I I I told you before I couldn't find any chance during these years my uh previous event engagement etc that's another topic but for the uh search industry um probably we will see more agentic stuff I believe and my current uh point is I'm trying to build an SEO aog uh agentic orchestration but we'll see uh and everyone every everything is happening fast you know we'll see chip 53 then a week later we are trying to deal with okay where where the how can we see these square fan outs okay and we can see uh also quer fanouts in Google's AI mode please google uh Please share share some clue with us. I'm I'm really uh excited for that. So yes, everything is happening fast. This is my first uh thought and then yes, we'll see. Let me ask you this. So you're you're in Chrome DevTools. To what extent is it do you have a method when you're trying to do your research and discover new things versus trial and error? Like are you just looking at the code and hoping to stumble upon oh you know that's where you know they they actually did kind of hide a nugget of query fan out or are you kind of systematically looking through different sections of the uh Chrome dev tools with updates and whatnot? Yes, I I first I started clearing my X feed to see more uh quality uh and qualified tweets for my opinions and I believe I succeed uh on it. So I see only uh feedbacks from the search industry how people is trying to understand these uh probabilistic designed systems. I mean for the LA lamps and second I love running deep research with some opensource models I won't name it uh but hopefully in the event so everyone is invited for this week so let's let's talk uh also during the event uh please find me find Garrett and everyone from the IP yes uh deep research then I really love digging Reddit you know uh people love sharing their experiments and uh on the technical parts I really really started listening some browser events and uh server side you know uh streaming events so um month by month when you find new clues on these events of course it's need to be processed and you need to understand how the mechanism works But especially if you really really love listening browsers, I actually you can find more clues. So that's another uh way to discover new findings on my stuff. Especially in Perplexity, they they were just uh used a very basic crypto uh schema and it was really uh easy to decode and deopuscate all the code. And then suddenly everything started appear. Okay. Okay. Yes. >> How do you think what's what do you think is going to happen with like do you think perplexity will get bought? Do you think open AI will actually challenge Google because we still know that like Google has 90% of the market share >> and like Claude, you know, Anthropic is obviously making trying to to to earn their visibility. Although I don't think anyone really thinks of Claude or co-work despite OpenClaw as like a search engine like if anything it has a better chance to kind of get into the agentic flows of things. >> Yeah. >> Who do you like which which organization do you think will become dominant or do you think it's it's just Google's to lose? >> First Google has a really really uh distribution advantage. if they just want to release a new model, they have YouTube, Gmail, Android, uh Google search, Google ads, you know, too many too many products. But yes, on the other hand, the other LLMs, Chet Chip, the OpenAI, also Grog X, uh cloud, of course, they are very very successful in the coding space. So it's becoming like an enterprise and technical people uh loving place uh they're it's becoming their second home right now. Uh of course it's also waited for me. Yes, I love using uh cloud. Uh but yes these new developments and products models are very disruptive and it's forcing Google. It feels like this is my personal opinion. It feels like but we also know Google acquire acquired deep mind uh more than a decade ago. So they uh actually they are able to release all of these products and they already I believe invented all of these stuff but these new models uh forced Google to release them also in uh the public space. So as a user yes I have uh too many benefits of using these models but Google has also really uh has a huge spam uh exper experience. So in GPT on or other LLMs you can just play with some prompts and you can be success with prompt injection attacks. It's so basic but Google >> Yeah. >> No, Google Google knows how uh they can manage it. >> I know. But we are so dangerous as SEOs because it's like it always is the cat and mouse game where it's like every time Google plugs a hole like we find a way to do something, you know, manipulative or or like ruin the internet as uh as the Verge said at one point. Um give me a peak as we get to the end of this like into your talk. You talk about um you know reverse engineering. You're talking about the how it selects different types of content. You're talking about entities, information gain, um confidence and hedging. Give us like a little peak of what people can expect to hear from you at SEO week this year. >> Yes. Um there there are also some uh connecting talks uh with my presentation but I really want to uh show everything in depth also with some maybe mathematical formulation. I'm still working on that. But especially if you just uh ask how to make a bread in any LLM, it won't make a web search and it will bring some you know the training data. So training data is very crucial also uh here in this retrival pipeline and I really want to show at the same time the how the these training data creates a multiplier for your brand and how can be more visible in training data. How can you influence these uh training data? I still have ongoing experiments uh with this and recently you know I made a collaboration with the common crawl uh one of the very popular data sets for almost every major LLMs and there are some >> and major publishers blocking CC bot for crawling purposes etc. That's another topic. But yes, it will be very technical. It will include some training uh outputs uh with almost every major model. But yes, for Google and CH GPT are very popular. So yes, we'll see many uh technical retrial pipeline and actionable tips for every attendee. I dude there's too much to talk about with you because it's like I forgot it's like if you guys haven't we'll we'll include the link but you got a really cool common crawl tool man. >> Yes, I'm still thinking on that because I will have a limited time I and I really need to provide the best information for every >> Well, you you put out a common crawl to you know kind of for a brand to look and see their visibility of how included they are and you know like I went with ipolan.com immediately. I was like, "Okay, where are we? How do we compare to competitors?" Cuz to your point, it's like the training data if you're the queries are not don't need to be grounded in any sort of like, you know, rag pipeline of like current search, then that's going to be a major definitive advantage. you know that you've got I'm curious about your experiment that you're running with you know the AI slop and and you know how you're getting more LLM visits compared to um you know traditional SEO visits at this point you're doing so many things let me finally ask you before we close out is what are you most excited about for SEO week >> for SEO week first I will uh this is my first big trip to United states. Uh so it's personal. Uh but it's really really exciting because I was biting my nails last year. Unfortunately because of my calendar I I couldn't come up but I talked with my many friends and clients in the United States and they were all all engaged with all speakers with the uh you know event space. you have a gorgeous uh event space and you know talking with uh and skip the basics is the uh best thing during an SEO event you know you can just uh sometimes you find yourself you are just talking about basics but in SEO week you just skip the basics and really talk about the uh serious stuff that's the best so I'm super excited to uh meet with new people, seeing friends and uh and try to also visit some popular uh places, you know, >> dude, you got to do all the touristy stuff and make sure you get a good slice of pizza and then you know you you see you see Time Square, all that. It's going to be so much fun. I'm so excited, Medahan, to meet you in person. I'm excited to hear your talk. Um, for everyone who's watching this, you got hopefully by the time this is published, we actually maybe still have some tickets left to scoop up. So, buy your tickets the 27th to the 30th of April in New York City. Come see Medahan Speak on day one. Even if you can't do the whole event, at least come to day one of the science. if you really want to get your hardcore engineering science technical fill with him and Mike and Scott Stoer and Jeff Cole and all the brilliant folks. Uh I can't wait to see you, man. We'll see everybody there. Thanks for joining me today. This has been great. >> Yes. Thank you. Thank you. And see you in New York. >> Peace out.
